## CloudFront
Amazon CloudFront can be used to deliver your entire website, including dynamic, static, streaming, and interactive content using a global network of edge locations. Requests for your content are automatically routed to the nearest edge location, so content is delivered with the best possible performance.

0. Exam tips
* Edge location: the location where content will be cached. separate to an AWS AZ.
* Origin: the origin of all files that the CDN will distribute. either an S3 Bucket, EC2 instance, ELB or Route53. custom origin works.
* Distribution: collection of Edge locations.
\ - web distribution: website
\ - RTMP
* Edge locations are NOT READ ONLY. you can write them too.
* Objects are cached for the life of the TTL (time to live)
* you can clear cached objects, but you will be charged.

1. CDN
Content Delivery Network, a system of distributed servers (network) that deliver webpages and other web content to a user based on the geographical locations of the user, the origin of the webpage and a content delivery server.

* Edge location: the location where content will be cached. separate to an AWS AZ.
* Origin: the origin of all files that the CDN will distribute. either an S3 Bucket, EC2 instance, ELB or Route53.
* Distribution: collection of Edge locations.

2. CloudFront
optimized to work with other AWS, like S3, EC2, ELB, Route 53.
CloudFront also works seamlessly with any non-AWS origin server, which stores the original, definitive versions of your files.

* Web Distribution: typically used for websites.
* RTMP: media streaming.
