# DB products
## DynamoDB
NoSQL database. <br />
fully managed database and supports both document and key-value data models.<br />

1. Ư¡
* Stored on SSD storage.
* Spread across 3 geographically distinct data centres.
* eventual consistent reads (deafault) <br />
consistency across all copies of data is usually reached within a second. <br />
repeating a read after a short time should return the updated data.<br />
==> best read performance <br />
* strongly consistent reads <br />
a result that reflects all writes that received a successful response prior the read.

2. Pricing
* Provisioned Throughput Capacity.
write throughput $0.0065 per hour for every 10 units.<br />
read throughput $0.0065 per hour for every 50 units.<br />
* Storage costs of $0.25GB per month.
<br />
3. Example<br />
let's assume that your application needs to perform 1 million writes and 1 million reads per day, while storing 3GB of data.<br />
* calculate how many writes/reads per second you need.<br />
Write Capacity Unit can handle 1 write per second, so you need 12 write capacity units.<br />
same for Read Capacity Unit.
* can be expensive for writes, but very cheap for reads.

## RedShift
data wareshouse. $1000 per terabyte data warehouse.
1. Configuration
* Single node (160GB)
* Multi-node <br/>
leader note, manages client connections and receives queries.<br />
compute node, store data and perform queries and computations. up to 128 compute nodes.<br />

2. Ư¡
* columnar data storage: organizes the data by column. ideal for transaction processing, column-based system. <br />
only columns involved in the queries are processed and data is tored sequentially<br />
==> far fewer I/Os, greatly improving query performance.
* advanced compression: can be compressed much more than row-based stores because similar data is stored sequentially on the disk<br />
==> uses less space than traditional relational database.
* massively parallel processing: automatically distributes data and query load accross all nodes. easy to add notes, and enables fast query performance.

3. Pricing
* compute node hours: total number of hours you run across all your computer nodes for the billing period. leader node is not included.
* backup
* data transfer, only within a VPC.

4. Security
* encrypted in transit using SSL.
* AES-256 encryption.
* by default, Redshift takes care of key management.

5. Availability
* currently only available in 1 AZ.
* restore snapshots to new AZ's in the event of an outage.


## Elasticache
web service that makes it easy to deploy, operate and scale an in-memory cache in the cloud.
1. Ư¡
* improve latency and throughput for many read-heavy application workloads (sns, gaming, media sharing and qna portals) or compute intensive workloads (recommendation engine).
* storing critical pieces of data in memory for low-latency access. cached information may include the results of I/O intensive database queries or the result of computationally-intensive calculations.

2. Type
* Memcached<br />
widely adopted memory object caching system. ElastiCache is compliant with Memcached.
* Redis <br />
in-memory key-value stores that supports data structure as a sorted sets and lists.

## Aurora

1. Scaling
* start with 10GB, scales in 10GB increments to 64TB.
* compute resources can scale up to 32vCPUs and 244GB of memory.
* 2 copies of your data is contained in each AZ, with minimum 3 AZs. so 6 copies of your data.
* transparently handle the loss of up to two copies of data without affecting db write availability and up to three copies without affecting read availability.
* self-healing. data blocks and disks are continuously scanned for errors and repaired automatically.

2. Replicas
* Aurora replicas (up to 15)
* MySQL Read replicas (up to 5)