# VPC
## VPC 개념
* virtual data center in the cloud.
* additionally VPN connection between legacy network and AWS network.
* a subnet can only sit in a single AZ.
* 5 at most in a region.

* launch instances into a subnet of your choosing.
* assign custom IP address ranges in each subnet.
* configure route tables between subnets.
* create internet gateway and attach it to our VPC.
* security control over your AWS resources.
* instance security group.
* subnet network security control

* all subnets in default VPC have a route out to the internet.
* only one internet gateway per vpc.

## VPC peering
* allows you to connect one VPC with another via a direct network route using private IP addresses.
* instances behave as if they were on the same private network.
* you can peer VPC's with other AWS accounts as weㅣl as with other VPCs in the same account.
* no transitive peering.
* cannot create peering connection between VPCs that have matching or overlapping CIDR blocks.
* cannot create peering connection between VPCs in different regions.


## NAT instance
* when creating a NAT instance, Disable Source / Destination Check on the instance.
* NAT instances must be in a public subnet.
* There must be a route out of the private subnet to the NAT instace, in order for this to work.
* The amount of traffic that NAT instances can support depends on the instance size. if you are bottlenecking, increase the instance size.
* you can create high availability using Autoscaling Groups, multiple subnets in different AZs, and a script to automate failover.
* Nat instances are behind security groups.
* NAT instance can be used as a bastion server. 다른 장비로 들어가기 위한 징검다리.

## NAT gateway
* AZ 단위에서 작동.
* preferred by the enterprise.
* scale automatically up to 10GBps
* No need to patch
* Not associated with security groups
* automatically assigned a public ip address
* remember to update your route table.
* no need to disable source / destination checks.


## NACL
* for private ACL, every inbound is denied by default.
* default network ACL allows all outbound and inbound traffic by default.
* custom network ACL denies all inbound and outbound until you add rules.
* each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a network ACL. default acl is associated with subnet.
* a NACL can be associated with multiple subnets. but a subnet can have only one NACL.
* ACL은 숫자가 작은 것부터 순서대로 정렬된 리스트.
* NACL is stateless; responses to allowed inbound are subject to the rules for outbound traffic.
* blocking IP addresses is available with NACL not security groups.


## VPC Flow logs
enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. <br/>
After VPC flow logs are created, you can view and retrieve its data in Amazon CloudWatch Logs. <br/>
can be created in three levels: 1) VPC 2) Subnet 3) Network Interface Level <br />
You cannot enable flow logs for VPCs that are peerd with your VPC unless it is in your account. <br/>
can't tag a flow log <br/>
after it is created, you cannot change its configuration.


## NAT vs Bastion
* NAT: provide internet traffic to EC2 instances in private subnets.
* Bastion: securely administer EC2 instances, with RDP...


at least two subnets are required for ALB.