
## SQS
1. 특징
* oldest
* message queue to store messages while waiting for a computer to process them.
* quickly and reliably queue messages that one component in the application generates to be consumed by another component.
* SQS pulls the message.
* acts as a buffer between the component producing and saving data, and the component receiving the data for processing.

2. Key facts
* pull-based, not push-based.
* messages are 256 kb in size.
* messages can be kept in the queue from 1 min to 14 days.
* default retention period is 4 days.
* SQS guarntees that your messages will be processed at least once.

3. 타입
* Standard queue: nearly-unlimited number of transaction. 순서 X.
* FIFO queue: FIFO

4. Visibility timeout <br />
* amount of time that the message is invisible in the SQS queue after a reader pickes up that message.
* if the job is not processed within the invisible timeout, the message will be visible again and another reader can process it again.
* default value is 30 sec, if the task takes longer than this, you should process extend it.

5. Long polling
* a way to retrieve messages from SQS.
* while the short polling returns immediately, long polling does not return a response until a message arrives in the message queue, or the long poll times out.
* so it saves your money.



## Simple Workflow Service
1. 개념
once the task is assigned, it never gets duplicated.
the workers and decider can run both on cloud infra and legacy machines. 
SWF allows the decider to get consistent views into the progress of tasks and to initiate new tasks in an ongoing manner.
SWF stores tasks, assigns them to workers when they are ready, and monitors their progress.
since SWF maintains the state durably, workers and deciders don't have to keep track of execution state.
each tasks run independently and scale quickly.

2. Domain
* all workflow and activity types and the workflow execution are all stored in a domain.
* domain isolates them from others within the same account.

3. SWF vs SQS
* SWF: 1) task-oriented 2) tasks never get duplicsated 3) offers task tracking by itself.
* SQS: 2) message-oriented 2) should handle duplicated messages 3) need to implement application-level tracking by customer.



## Simple Notification Service
1. 개념
* pub/sub messaging with notification using 'push'.

2. Topics
* access point for allowing recipients to dynamically subscribe for identical copies of the same notification.
* group multiple recipients using topics.
* one topic can support deliveries to multiple endpoint types.


## Elastic Transcoder
* media transcoder in the cloud.
* convert media files from their original source format in to different formats that will play on multiple devices.
* provides transcoding presets for popular output formats, which means that you don't need to guess about which settings work best on particular devices.
* pay based on the minutes that you transcode and the resolution at which you transcode.


## API Gateway
1. 개념
* fully managed service to publish, maintain, monitor and secure APIs at any scale.
* generates 'front door' APIs to acess your apps in AWS computing resources.

2. Caching
enable API caching in API gateway to cache your endpoint's response.

3. 장점
* low cost & efficiency
* scales effortlessly
* throttle requests to prevent attacks
* connect to cloudwatch to log all requests

4. same origin policy
under this policy, a browser permits scripts contained in a first page to access data in a second page, only if they have the same origin.

5. Cross Origin Reousrce Sharing (CORS)
allows restricted resources on a web page to be requested from another domain outside the domain from which the first resource was served.


## Kinesis
streaming data is generated continuously by thousands of data sources, which typically send in the data records simultaneously, and in small sizes.
i.e. purchases from online stores, stock prices, game data, sns, geospatial data, iot sensor data.

1. 개념
* Kinesis is where you send your streaming data.
* load, analyze data, and build custom app.

2. Cores
2.1. streams
* consists of shards
* 5 transaction per sec.
* 24hours, extend by 7 days.
* sends to consumer-facing EC2, then it sends to S3...

2.2. firehose
* it directly sends to S3
* 샤드 관리, 데이터 보관 신경 안써도 됨.

2.3. analytics
* sql query inside the kinesis, and sends the result to S3...